ADSL (Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line). Transmission technology with a bandwidth which allows information to be sent at a rate of up to 2 Mbit/s.
ANAM. Automatic Network Answering Machine.
ARPU (Average Revenue Per User). Average monthly income per client per month for mobile telephone use. It includes income from the connection charge, monthly rental charge, traffic and income for outgoing roaming calls and interconnection.
ASP (Active Server Page). Special type of web page containing small programmes (also called scripts) executed in Microsoft Internet Information Servers before being sent to users for viewing as an HTML page. Files of this type have the suffix .asp.
Backbone. Main «artery» or network referring to transport traffic networks.
B2B (Business to Business). Electronic commerce between companies. B2C (Business to Consumer). Electronic commerce between
companies and end consumers.
Bandwidth. Technical term to describe the difference in Hertz (Hz) between the highest and lowest frequency of a transmission channel. However, the term is often used to refer to the amount of data that may be sent in a specific time period via a communication circuit.
Banner. Advert contained within a web page.
Bit/s (bits per second). Measurement of the transmission
capabilities of a telecommunications line.
Blackberry. Trademark of a handheld data handling device to organise e-mail in real time, designed by Research in Motion Limited (RIM), and which Telefónica Móviles has incorporated as part of its services.
Carrier. Telecommunications Operator mainly dedicated to transporting traffic, whether it be national or international.
Cash Flow The cash generated by a company from its operations within a fixed space of time.
CAPEX (Capital Expenditures). Physical and non-physical intangible investments.
CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access). A type of modulation mainly used in mobile telephone systems.
Chat. Simultaneous communication between two or more users over the Internet, using short written messages.
Ciphering. Treatment given to data to prohibit anyone except the person to whom they are addressed from reading them. There are several types of data ciphering in use which together form the security ‘backbone’ of a network.
Cicorp. Corporate information centre for financial analysis by Telefónica.
Churn. Number of lost customers shown as a percentage. Calculated as the number of cancelled contracts from amongst the average number of users within the same period.
Conference Call. Simultaneous conversation between several users. Content Delivery. Value-added service offering the ‘intelligent’ distribution
of contents, offered by Internet Data Centres.
Core. Term used to describe essential or primary businesses.
CRM (Customer Relationship Management). Services aimed at customer relations, including personal attention, billing, organisation of databases and market investigations.
DST. Digital Satellite Television.
DJIA. (Dow Jones Industrial Average), Stock exchange index giving information on the behaviour of traditional industries in the United States.
DNS. Domain Name System.
Domain. Group of characters identifying a web site that may be
accessed by users.
Download. Process of downloading information from an Internet server to a personal computer.
DVD (Digital Versatile Disc). Evolved version of the Compact Disc that allows films and other information to be stored in a high-quality digital format with multiple audio channels.
E-Commerce. Commercial exchange of goods and services using Information Technologies and Communication networks.
Electronic Money. Electronic payment method based on pre-paid credit cards or specific types of software to exchange goods and money over the Internet. It is hoped that in the future it will be one
EBITDA (Earnings Before Interests, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortisation). Gross result of business operations, calculated as operating income minus operating expenses.
EBITDA Margin. Gross operating costs divided by Operating Costs. e-Business (electronic business). Intensive use of Internet
technologies for running all processes within a company. e-Company. Company which uses e-business in all its operations.
EDGE (Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution). Technology which increases the bandwidth for transmitting data via GSM and GPRS. One of its main advantages is that it may be added to existing networks.
EDi-Web. Generic term referring to a type of electronic document based on web technology and transferred via Internet.
Eeurope. Initiative by the European Commission to introduce the Information Society to all European citizens.
e-learning. Human resources training system using Internet technology.
e-mail. Electronic mail.
e-SIF. Global collection system of financial and management
information for Grupo Telefónica.
Extranet. Type of private internet system (Intranet) that allows the user to connect to a selected number of outside users (customers, suppliers, partners etc.)
Factoring. Financial product whereby a company transfers the commercial credits derived from its sales to another entity. In turn, this entity offers financial and debt-collecting services.
Firewall. System installed between a local network and the Internet. Flash. Technology used to design, illustrate and animate web pages.
Flat rate. Tariff or pricing system applied in general terms, according to criteria of the time of day when used instead of consumption.
Free Cash Flow. Number of available and circulating corporate capital shares for negotiation by the general public.
Free float. Number of shares available for the share capital of a company which are in circulation and freely available for public purchase.
Generic Domain. multi-national domains identified by a series of letters: «.com»,«.org» «.edu», «.gov» ,«.biz», «.info», «.name», «.pro», «.aero», «.museum», or «.coop».
GPRS (General Packet Radio Service). Mobile telephone communication service based on the transmission of ‘packets’ with speeds of up to 114 Kbit/s and an Internet connection.
Gateway. Internet access point to a wide range of resources and services, including search engines, chat forums, commercial sites, etc.
GSM (Global system for Mobile communication). Mobile telephone system for mobile communication developed in Europe thanks to collaboration between operators, Government bodies and private companies.
Hacker. Individual with extensive knowledge of the internal set-up of systems, computers or computer networks who considers it a challenge to test the security of systems. In the strictest sense of the term, hackers do not seek any type of profit or to cause harm to others; this is the realm of the so-called «crackers» or «phreakers».
HTML (HyperText Markup Language). Computer language used to write web pages accessed by Internet browsers.
HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol). Protocol used to transfer Internet documents.
Host. In Internet terms, «host» initially referred to any computer with access to other computers in the network. Each host has its own IP address that gives it a definitive identity. However, since the appearance of «virtual hosts», this is no longer the case.I+D. Investigación y Desarrollo.
Internet Address. IP address that definitively identifies a connection point in an Internet network.
IP Address. Address defined by Internet Protocol. Usually represented by a series of numbers separated by decimal points, for example 193.127.88.345.
IGS. Issue for General Subscription to shares. Unlike a POS, an IGS may or may not be freely subscribed to.
Incumbent. Dominant entity within a given market. i-Mode. Packet transmission service which allows Internet
connection via mobile telephones.
Info XXI. Initiative by the Spanish government to promote the Information Society. «The Information Society for one and all».
Information Society. The Information Society is a stage of social development characterised by the capacity of its members (individuals, companies and civil authorities) to obtain and share any type of information from any given location in the way they prefer.
Internet. Digital network with packet switching, based on TCP/IP protocols.
Intranet. Internet-type network for private use. Input. Internal consumption.
ISDN (Integrated Service Digital Network). Network integrating voice services, data, video etc, using two 64 Kbit/s channels.
ISO. International Organization for Standardization.
ISP (Internet Service Provider). Normally profit-making organisation
which offers Internet to individuals and companies, as well as providing a series of services, such as website hosting, e-mail services, etc.
Java. Programming language developed by Sun for creating small- scale applications that may be downloaded to the network (called applets), capable of functioning on any type of platform using internet navigators. Java makes it possible to add dynamic content to web pages.
JavaScript. Language developed by the Netscape Corporation. Although it is similar to Java, the main difference is that programmes are incorporated within the HTML file.
Joint Venture. Agreement between two companies to create a third.
Knowledge Bases. Basically databases or facilities used to store information and optimise its use, considered as an asset within an organisation.
LAN (Local Area Network). Network offering services to a maximum area of a few square kilometres, with transmission speeds of up to 100 megabits per second.
Local Loop. Final section of a network (pair cable) which connects customer’s homes to a local telephone exchange. Most local loops measure less than three kilometres.
Marketplace. Internet websites designed for electronic commerce, acting as a meeting point between offer and demand within a virtual marketplace Internet.
MOU (Minutes of Usage). Average number of call minutes on air per mobile telephone customer per month. Minutes on air include both outgoing traffic (mobile-fixed phone, mobile-internal mobile, mobile-other mobile operators) and incoming traffic (fixed phone- mobile and other mobile operators-mobile).
MMS. Multi-Media Messages via mobile telephone incorporating voice messages, images, video and audio.
Multidomestic. Local operations working alongside international operations. Used with reference to operators, indicating adaptation to the characteristics of local markets by multinational companies.
Multimedia. Digitised information combining different types of information, including text, graphics, static or moving images and audio.
NASDAQ (National Association of Securities Dealers). Computerised quotation system or electronic stock exchange (NASD Automated Quotation system) operating within the USA’s stock exchange.
Navigator (Browser). Application to view Internet documents and ‘surf’ the Internet. Designed for ease of use without any previous knowledge of computers.
Online. Connected to a network.
O.B.P («Open, Basic, Premium»). Commercial offer by Terra based on a combination of access and open services for all users, together with other services for which it receives payment, via quotas and «pay per view» or «pay per use» services.
POS. Public Offer for Sale of shares aimed at the general public.
Openwave Download Fun. Software providing mobile telephones with multi-media services and contents via SMS and WAP messages.
Outsourcing. Method whereby a company contracts the services of another company to carry out the same type of business it offers, with the aim of reducing costs and improving services.
Partner. Strategic member of a company or organisation.
Pay Per View / Pay Per Use. Type of broadcasting in which a quota
must be paid to access the station’s contents using a decoder.
Personal Digital Assistant (PDA). Miniature device used as an electronic agenda, more commonly considered as a hand-held computer.
Ping (Packet Internet Grouper). Programme used to check if Internet addresses are available.
Palmtop. small hand-held computer, usually identified with PDA agendas (Personal Digital Assistant).
Portability. Service which all fixed and mobile telephone operators must offer to their customers, whereby they may change operator, free of charge, without having to change their telephone number.
Pre-allocation. Procedure whereby customers may choose to direct all of their calls (either metropolitan, provincial, inter-provincial, international and from fixed phones to mobiles) using an operator other than Telefónica using direct dialling, without having to dial a prefix.
Premium Special service (TV channel, web page, package of available channels etc). Wsith particularly attractive contents, offered at a specific price to customers who already receive the basic package from a platform.
Price-Cap. New system of maximum annual prices established by the relevant authority.
R+D. Research and Development.
Risk Capital. Capital dedicated to investments carried out by small companies in their early stages, when it is difficult to evaluate the way in which the company will perform in the mid and long term.
Roadshow. Presentations offered in different areas or countries by representatives of a company to inform about the economic and financial situation of the company or about specific areas of its work, prior to the launch of new products, etc.
SAC (Subscriber Acquisition Cost). Monthly cost for acquiring each mobile phone customer. Includes subventions for terminal costs, commissions for the sales network, and the welcome pack.
SMS. Short Message Service offering GSM mobile telephone users the opportunity to send messages of up to 180 characters using a signalling channel.
SRC (Subscriber Retention Cost). Monthly cost of maintaining mobile telephone customers.
Search Engine. Internet service allowing users to search for specific information in any server by typing in a series of words related to the subject in question.
SSC (Shared Services Centre). An outsourcing support services provider for different companies.
Synergies. The convergence and sharing of resources between different areas or departments within the same system or organisation.
Spam o Spamming. The receipt of unsolicited e-mail sent en masse by companies or individuals.
Streaming. The transmission of audio and video data allowing the user to not have to wait for the information to download completely, but instead to have it available as it is received.
S&P (Standard and Poor’s 500). New York Stock Exchange index which takes the 500 most important listed companies as its point of reference.
3G or Third Generation. Third generation mobile telephones. (See UMTS)
Take-over Bid. Stock exchange operation whereby a company attempts to acquire a substantial part of the share capital of another company with shares on the stock exchange.
TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol). Family of protocols upon which Internet is based.
TDMA (Time Division Multiple Access). A method for assigning bandwidths in which each channel may access the bandwidth for a specific time period.
TDT (Terrestrial Digital Television). Digital TV platform using terrestrial transmission systems instead of satellites.
TIES. Retribution system for employees within a company connected to shares and share options in the same company.
UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecommunications System). Standard for High-speed Broadband mobile telephone communications, developed by the ETSI (European Telecommunications Standard Institute).
URL (Uniform Resource Locator). Unified system for identifying network resources. Addresses of this type allow users to identify Internet sites, Gopher, FTP, Newsgroups, etc. Examples of URL’s are http://www.anaya.es or ftp://ftp.ati.esusuario.
Video on Demand (VOD). Systems allowing viewers to request and view a specific programme at the time they require, freeze images, rewind or watch it in slow motion, etc.
VOIP (Voice access Over Internet Protocol). New term for telephony via Internet.
WAP (Wireless Application Protocol). Protocol giving mobile telephone users interactive Internet access, viewing information on the telephone’s screen.
Web. Internet information server. Also used to define web space as a whole.
WML (Wireless Markup Language). Shortened version of HTML mark up language for wireless telephone communications.
WWW (World Wide Web). Widely extended information system, based on hypertext, containing information in a wide range of formats (text, graphics, audio, still or moving images) and is easily accessible by users using navigation programmes.
xDSL (Digital Subscriber Line). Technologies offering a wide bandwidth using a conventional pair cable originally installed for telephone services. ADSL is the system currently in use.
XML (eXtensible Markup Language). Language developed from the HTML language used for web pages to offer new possibilities for transferring information over the Internet. It is used as the basis for Edi-Web.
Website. Group of web pages accessed using a single URL address.
